[Music]
welcome
everyone to this week's sync meeting
is the 29th of march 2021
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked on on the past week
and then discuss any open agenda items
um i start with myself and the update is
just
as boring as as every week the past few
weeks
but i'm still working on the js smart
performance integration into
js ipfs unixfs and js ipfs
i've linked the prs in draft prs
in the meeting nodes
yeah still ongoing i still hope to get
at least the unix fs part
done this quarter which is not that many
days
left um we'll see
and but what is interesting um there
were also changes
or i propose changes on js
multi formats and
it's interesting because um so for
people that are not
that deep into javascript but um or for
people into javascript is interesting
so there's two ways to load modules
there's the
node way and there is the new es6
modules loading way
and so for the js multi-format stuff and
the new ipodle stuff
michael and also i read with him it
makes sense to use the new module stuff
because like this is what
people will use in the future and but we
of course need to be compatible with the
old stuff because this is for example
what js ipfs is using
and then of course we had this effort in
js ipfs
that added the typescript typing
so the problem is we got it working with
the
old module format coding in the new one
kind of like compiling it to the old one
but now you also need to make sure that
typescript types work
but the problem is you can't it's really
difficult to get them working with the
new stuff as well as with the old stuff
um and so we had problems with those
things
and what we now ended up with is
that um in the module system you have
something like
it's called default export which means a
single file exports a single thing and
not multiple things
and normally you are happy to use this
but in our case it turned out like it
doesn't work well with the typing and
everything
so the easiest solution that goes allah
proposed was
just don't use default exports but just
export it by name
so it's kind of like a technical detail
and like if you then import things it's
a bit
diff different and might not be as
nice the inputs but i think it's totally
workable and i also found so when i did
the research from blog posts about like
people
just well you shouldn't use default
exports at all
so there's also those kind of people so
it's kind of like it's kind of okay to
use
so-called named exports this is what we
do now and the good news now is that
it's really smooth to use it with a new
model system with the odd module system
as well as with with the typescript
types
and you don't get any strange error
messages you don't understand
so and this is about to be merged with a
few discussions about the naming and so
on but hopefully
this js multiformats pr will be merged
today or tomorrow
because i kind of need it for my work um
and i think moving forward we probably
will use
or i suggest that we use for our json
modules always named exports because
it's just
um smoother um so i'm not saying that
it's not possible with default exports
but it's just
we would need some way to make it work
somehow it
might then break somewhere else and this
was just the cleaner approach i think
and it seems to work so far and also
like
to make it even more complicated if you
use some bundlers they also mix up
things so
it then depends on if using a webpage or
parcel
or some other one and so yeah it's
really complicated
and i think now we're at a stage where
it's i think
kind of works on all the things that we
tried it on
and um
yeah the other typing
passes as well as the tests so that
looks promising
cool yes that's all i have
so next on my list
is eric
hello so i have
not super many updates this week but a
couple of small ones that are nice
um the legacy go ipld
format repos have finally got a status
text
in them a little section of the readme
that's saying hi by the way there's
newer alternatives
and pointing a link so will started a pr
for that
um i added a little more diff on top of
it as well
that i have an idea that i want to try
out
and so if anybody has like feelings on
this and wants to comment later please
do
um no we didn't do it for other repos in
response to question the chat we should
um because we've got a bunch of repos
that probably need some sort of
update to their status text
i'm trying the idea of maybe we should
put some bold
sort of keywords in these
text areas and otherwise go free text
because i think trying to make this
overly structural will probably crash
and burn
by being too high overhead but
i'm going to try to like pick some bold
words like has alternatives available
and put that in like bold and marked
down and
maybe some loose convention around that
will be a useful thing to help us
talk clearly about this in the future
in my wildest dreams maybe we'll write a
little script that goes through repos
and checks
who has these bold text tags available
and then we can build dashboards
not going to do that this week but it's
an idea okay so
thank you will for kickstarting that um
there's an issue that's been opened on
the go i killed prime repo about the
link
context abstraction um
if anybody is interested in that and has
opinions about the friction of that or
has run across it especially in
performance profiling it would be
interesting to get more information on
that otherwise
maybe we'll resume that thought later
um and one thing i want to note from
others that are not present in the call
but i know are doing awesome stuff
um this go unix fs node repo that i keep
mentioning in passing over the weeks
i believe it is going to be going a
little bit further the team that is
working on
upgrading a bunch of ipfs internals go
ipfs internals
they've realized that their road map for
upgrading go ipfs internals requires
them to have this go unix of s node
library
um and be at least i think able to read
the unix of sv1 started directories so
that feature i think is intended to make
it into adl land
soon very exciting
um yeah that's about it
thanks um next is daniel
cool uh where's my tab
so i'll be brief um i'm still
i've still been doing work on dac pb um
so spec wise we're still looking good
i did mention on slack briefly that
there was one test that was failing and
it turns out that some people did write
their own their own pro buff encoders
and decoders for pb nodes
and they used a different order so we
ended up agreeing to
still have a must for a canonical format
but then be more lenient on decoding so
that
we actually keep backwards compatibility
with ipfs data
so the spec change is there and i also
updated the code
and that setting on my laptop because
i've got another pr and i don't want to
enter into conflicts with myself
and we don't live in a world where i can
push a chain of prs unfortunately
um the other pr that's causing uh this
chain
is a bunch of performance improvements
in gokodectpd
um it really roughly is just that the
old protobuf
sorry stackpb encoder and decoder was
code generated
and it worked directly on bytes whereas
the new one
tries to do fancy stuff with reader and
writer which is fine but it's also
pretty slow um so i
i did something a little cheeky which is
use a package called proto wire from the
new
pro above library and it's well
optimized and it has some primitives
like
encode variant and consume variant and
stuff like that
so i was able to remove a bunch of code
um
it's faster so now the overhead is
practically
nothing it's still it's a little bit of
overhead because
ipld prime still has a little bit of
overhead and i will talk about that
later
but it's practically uh non-existent now
um it is a an extra dependency on co on
go codec deck pv but i reckon that's
fine because if anybody is importing
goku deck pb
i think importing the product of
libraries is reasonable
and if anybody thinks that's not the
case please shout
um and lastly
in terms of ipld prime um the
performance is fine
i i'm think i'm finding that the last um
20 of performance that i can't gain back
is basically alux
so you look at the cpu profile and just
the top 20 is just runtime functions
and it's essentially just allocations
that i can't get rid of
uh and there it's kind of sad because
they're really
small allocations that maybe we could
get rid of one
one for example is um each
pb link in the schema has a maybe string
for the name and there's a bunch of
other optional fields
and each one of these as far as i can
tell when it gets assigned to it
allocates
um i'm thinking to myself integers and
strings they're so small
do we do we really need pointers um i
don't know it feels like we could just
stick them in directly in the parent and
i see eric
there there's actually a feature for
this in the code gen already it's just
horribly documented but somewhere you
put a magic string in the
map and it'll do this i'll have to
re-figure out what the magic string is
later even i don't remember i'm sorry
fair enough uh so yeah if i if i can
turn that on
i think i'm going to be able to shave
off the next like an extra few percent
uh but yeah otherwise um i wrote a
benchmark for go merkle dag that
compares the old
encode and decode round trip with the
new one and we used to be about 20
slower overall um and that was basically
the new codec
and now we're basically within the noise
threshold so it's practically as good as
it was before
um and that's it for me
thanks does and in particular when
in when when put into i go ipfs
the integration tests using uh dan's
optimized version of dagp are now faster
than our baseline
arguably
cool um does anyone else have
any updates
i have a very short update uh i actually
spent some of you while we were talking
with
a few messages i met uh briefly with
with volcanized uh on friday and
they had a bunch of various questions
about
uh things uh they start with this
fan misconception what uh carpal
actually is
and uh i tagged a few of you
for like various questions on what do we
do for
uh the bitcoin idea uh sorry the falcon
adl
sort of for the actual uh whether we do
selectors as a simple like list
of blocks things like that uh
yeah if we can answer those like within
the week
to the nice
all right um
[Music]
anything else
i'm so excited about those performance
results that dan and will have got
um if you guys can also snapshot
some of your anything
actually like p profiles the whole thing
if you want or like
just like the png exports of stuff
i would love to have some like just
random snapshot artifacts without
floating around that i can
look at they don't have to be
like i know if i have to profile
anything myself i'm going to go in and
have to do a bunch of work in order to
get like an interactive wife but just
having some snapshots that give a like
ballpark impression would be really
helpful
i mean getting the p prof out of dan's
smaller go bench thing
is pretty doable and i think that's what
dan has been using
as part of his investigation for the
broader one that hannah posted
the pings of in the channel in in our
channel that we'll be talking about more
those are running in test run as a
larger integration test
i don't know the way that one magically
invokes getting p props out of test
current i hear there is
capacity for it but that's not an easier
ask yeah
um even some like just take a picture of
the thing at low res
and like we can find a place for it to
live i don't need particularly high-res
data
it would just be really nice to for
example this other issue that somebody
opened asking oh
is link context a huge problem because
it's doing struck copies like yadda
yadda i'm like
i bet it's not but i have no data and
neither does the other person opening
the issue so like the tiniest bit of
low-res data would be
just like handy
but i should also say that it depends on
what you're doing because
at least for our use case we have to
translate between proto node
and the dac pb node at every iteration
so it's it's not really
representative of somebody doing the
right thing
probably true also um but
synthetic benchmarks can also be
i would appreciate having like the
random real world data
all right um
i i have one thing that uh i there's a
public holiday next monday so i won't be
here so i just wanna like who would run
the meeting i know that rod has
all the access to things
to run the meeting and stream it and
whatnot but
will you be there next week or should i
give it to likes
like try to get the access to someone
else as well just for
yeah yeah you probably should give it to
someone else as well just in case it's
just
coming out of the late meetings before
this
like there's a quick jump so who can
who wants who wants to volunteer for
uh
sorry matter what no no no no
peter is not allowed to volunteer for
any more responsibility on anything
that's just a rule
so and and and also wait wait also like
also like peter for peter is also a
public holiday just
just to mention it so he shouldn't be
there
so peter so peter can't do it because he
won't be there it's a public holiday
so um yeah so i guess
every should i
could you sit up i think i will have
technical difficulties
i know this in advance um can i
at least like i give you the exes that
you can be the host at least
like someone has to be the host at least
to
do things yeah you don't have to you
don't have to broadcast you can just
record it okay and then i mean we can
talk about this more later
um but in general actually i've been
thinking about bringing up
do we want to do these every week or
would this meeting be useful enough if
it was
alternate weeks
i think i think with with will's team
sort of scaling down on the their work
there's probably
going to be less to talk about i don't
know i'm getting basis i i've got a
bunch of work to do
on js.pld this week
it's not very interesting but i just
don't think there's going to be a ton of
news
for for a weekly meeting um and i
so i will be like end of the quarters
this week so next week i will be
full-time
crypto computer lab so i won't do any
hyper-related stuff probably
like some side things but not like
really like
like what i really do is i do half time
the js my stuff so i won't
do that so
i guess it would make sense to do them
get back to the old format that we had
in the beginning i think
do it every two weeks
um yeah yeah yeah i think
i think i think this time slot becomes
more awkward for me as well next week
uh this goes to 7am
but i have to be up for a weekly meeting
at 6am before it so
i i don't know what i'm going to do yet
for the sake of the recording let's
decide this uh async
is there anything else that you want to
discuss that people would actually want
to hear
yes we can um yeah but
do we then basically say we have
definitely next week we have a meeting
so because so the busy people watching
this now now that
whether they will be meeting or not or
should we just skip next week
and then go from there i think what like
i think we should have at least a
decision on like
let's skip next week uh voting for skip
next week with skip
i'll be away there we go okay so we
skip next week and then i will be back
so we don't have to deal anything with
any
things and then we can like discuss it
how we do it or if anyone has any
comments
can chat with us email us um yeah
and so also like please if you talk to
any other people that might have tried
in the past just let them know perhaps
that
there's something going on that we might
not do it every week
cool okay and i also put it in the
meeting notes i guess
cool all right is there anything else
no okay then thanks everyone for
attending and see you all
in two weeks bye